all right everyone welcome to the
inaugural the first meeting of the
dynamic data and capabilities working
group so I'm my name is Pedro and the
lead of this working group thanks for
joining
so if you could put your names on the
attendee list of the notes please I
would much appreciate it
I just pasted a hit pad link on the chat
so all while you're doing that
I'm going to ask is there anyone
volunteering to take notes can you do it
the vid
cool thank you thank you
cool
[Music]
if you have access to the crib by this
is the agenda we have for today also you
can add more items on your gender if you
wish to discuss anything other than then
what is already there so feel free to
add anything so to start off for the
first missus this is the first meeting
I'm going to well lay out the goals of
the working group and point to point to
all the resources that we're going to
need to coordinate the work going
forward
so first the goals of the of the working
group but this is something that is not
written in stone it's kind of in motion
but I think it sums up in an abstract
way what what the goal is is to research
the research and development of building
blocks that enable collaborative
applications providing solutions for
security identity access control
concurrency a synchronization offline
and near real-time collaboration on top
of IP offense so these are the broad
goals and there is a repo here where
we're going that we're going to use to
coordinate all this work inside that
there is a bunch of issues if you go I'm
going to share my screen so that you
guys can see what I'm seeing cool so all
right
so here are the current issues that
we're trying to track there are like
three big groups of things that we're
going to address we're going to try to
address first all so this is like an
open list feel free to add your your
suggestions or your questions here so as
I was saying three main groups charities
if for people that don't know what
Sierra teas are there's there's a good
some on
on the resource further down on on a
grid pad here sorry this is cutting it
away
yep so there's a security research link
here for people that if people want to
use to know more about strategies so
basically they allow in a very assertive
way they allow for collaborative
real-time and shared editing of data
structures and one of the use cases
would be like a Google Doc for instance
Google Doc would be a good case for
people changing the same data structure
incorrectly and so it requires no no
synchronization between the peers so
it's kind of fits the centralized model
really well and it's kind of a recent
thing
a recent byproduct of of research so
there are there a bunch of issues open
here I could you can go through those
later if we could go through those later
if you want to so first one is charities
to enable the collaborative editing of
their structures and the other one is
identity so how those know about the
humans behind or the the person's the
person behind each one of the peers and
how do you prove certain things to each
other the other one is the vids kinda
descriptive cryptographic cryptographic
ACLs so a way to give permissions and
take permissions from those peers or
from those people over certain resources
that we want to manage on our
applications so those are the three main
groups that were going to try to track
what I said people can join in and add
issues and and and remove the issues
this is what we're going to use to
coordinate all the work there tend to be
fairly high level issues and then more
specific implementation ones
are on specific repos or new repos for
instance and I will later give you an
example of of that also we have an IRC
channel I have a link there's the
channel so feel free to I'll have
notifications up for for that there's
also this biweekly meeting that were we
can use to to sync up with each other
and there's a bunch of list of current
endeavors going on which are more
applications and libraries I like
byproducts of this this group one of
them is pure pad which is centralized
collaborative near real time editor that
uses shared it is underneath its there
is a first alpha version out there and
there are a lot of people working on on
a new version of pure pad a lot of new
features has its own repo which you can
can join in and check it out there's y
ipfs connector what she has is library
for the implements charities so why
because connector is something that
takes a white yjs and use this black
offense pops of network to four notes to
discover and talk each other
there's also be reality pure charity is
the library that implements up
operational strategies and then in an
abstract way but also pecially TIFs
which is an implementation of that over
ipfs so like a transport of knights over
a PFS and there's a bunch of them one of
them is temporary which is like a
centralized eventually consistence TV
store kv store over PFS and again for
free to add any endeavors that you want
to start working on or have been working
on here on this Rigney page more
resources let's see I think that's it
[Music]
so any question or suggestions so far
I have a couple mm-hmm so I think one
thing that hasn't been said is
essentially so there has been a lot of
development on creating these building
blocks for new applications and like for
the last year Pedro as being like pretty
much like carrying like just taking his
ship forward and like working with other
people some of them are present here but
he has been like creating all these
building blocks by himself to create
apps like peer path now we have this
working group that the purpose as
Pedroia explained like it is to continue
this development but as the name
suggests like working group is to
include more people in the conversation
so that more people can participate
possibly with their time the idea
suggest and so on and so like right now
like the working group is explaining
right so Pedro is like the lead and
pretty much like that the only for that
one person and you will be interested in
knowing it's like who is available slash
interested on on being part of these
challenges like in part of this
development and perhaps with that like
it will be good to do the round of
interest so that everyone could like
explain like who they are or just
introduce themselves and explain what
they are interested and what they've
been doing so far it's not everyone is
on the same page
yep that's the the next item on the
agenda I can I can go go ahead and give
the first the first one just just to set
the template so yeah I'm Pedro I'm lead
of this working group I've been working
for for protocol apps for a bit over a
year on J's J ipfs related stuff and all
the libraries underneath all not all but
some of them and before that well I've
been a software engineer for 20 years
I'm mostly interested in decentralized
well distributed systems and more lately
centralized systems
yeah I like I like I my intestine is in
this working group is making the goals
real so enabling second type
applications creating digital blocks
that enable centralized application
easily created by anyone so yeah I can
perhaps go okay what I've had with topic
is last meeting there were the last
meeting so like last two weeks I have
I've added further down on do notes I've
added what I've done so I've been
working on peacefully feeling it helping
[Music]
others I have performance issues of
austerity over IP LD so for those who
don't know I peel D is is like a
language that padma square allows grabs
the build on on top of a DFS and
charities and people at EFS is a word of
that oh and there are some issues in
transmitting equations charity
operations on combat and I'm working on
that and they're like I think that's
which allows us to have more
transparency over which fears and now
I'm working on a collection manager to
manage sections and where you can go
with to state what is the importance of
a connection to another peer important
to your application so that go back to
network and to allow
one blank or allows you to have some
finer grained control over the
connections the connections that you
want to have I'm walk-in a stupid thing
I'm gonna set up the puzzle board
there's a permission issue I guess also
and next I'm going to finish the first
person for next week oh so just what I
described David David dear David dear
are you typing yes you can hear every
classroom
I think Pedro was saying words but what
I could do with video typing I'll meet
myself from now on and stop sharing
sorry and well there's my list is
reordered I don't know in next my list
is Lydell I don't know hell I don't I
going to connect sorry Brendan oh it's
always keeps changing
alright sure I just joined we had a in
browsers working group sync and we
paused it so that we could join and I've
been working on browser extensions since
I don't know 2015 but I joined protocol
labs this year and like started pushing
this in more serious scope and not sure
what to say more apart from that I feel
that the work we are doing in browser
extension related to exposing window and
adding 0 of having embedded JS ipfs node
within web browser I feel this is like a
prerequisite for any work that is done
by your working group or at least it
provides better user experience when
someone wants to quickly start playing
with stuff they can for example right
now they can just installed ipfs
combined for beta channel and it can
switch to embedded node and play with
even pub/sub you are able thanks to
Allan's
patch we are able to initialize but that
node with arbitrary configuration so you
can play with swarm configurations and
absurd stuff like that so that's my main
interest and I guess I won't be actively
like maybe not from their beginnings
but I'm very interested with this this
use of our api's and we'll see what will
happen next
cool Brandon yeah hi my name is Brendan
O'Brien I'm the founder of a project
called query we're building get four
data sets on ipfs and we're really
interested in a lot of things that touch
the dynamic data side of things
our current sort of architecture
structure it is an overlay network on
top of an overlay network and we have
sort of were confronting identity
problems access control problems and pin
tracking under churn problems in real
ways so we're really excited to sort of
just like get messy share notes try and
collaborate in ways that can hopefully
advance a number of these issues so
anything I can do to sort of help
contribute to the thinking happening
here not and be super excited to do so
we also have our code is completely open
and so we'll be happily sort of sharing
and tracking anything as we sort of make
developments here but one of our big
sort of driving forces at the company is
trying to avoid sort of inventing new
specifications if we can just use
somebody else's and so as some of this
consensus emerges would be really
excited to sort of make things as
interoperable as possible cool that's
awesome yeah we if you wanted for
instance chiming into the issues that
that that we have there or pose or post
questions or put your insights links
it's also helpful yeah we're really
looking forward to that I want to take a
good look at CR DTS before I get super
connection to it because for us we have
a little a little less need for live
sort of collaborative editing but that's
definitely sort of like the concept of a
session or the concept of sort of a live
session is really important to us sort
of in a longer term so I'm interested to
see like how do whether a CR DT is a
good application that like scales in
this sort of 300 mm Z peers range that
sounds a little terrifying but I'm
mainly it's because of my lack of
familiarity with the technology
it's kind of getting its yeah really
looking forward to the conversations
happening here super cool thank you so
yeah I'm Rizzo I work on laptop and
stuff and I'm very interesting to see
what kind of applications you guys are
coming up with because it seems to me
that if you want to have dynamic data
cover build this in the multi-user
setting you can either make it a real
time distribution of data between the
participants and that's where pops up is
coming in so here vested interest on
that as you know my girl the floods of
the new floods have owner you know like
and I'd like to to make sure that
whatever we come up with works well for
your needs
thank you
perfectly very helpful to have a pop sub
scalable pop pops up implementation on
up your face
cool ollie
I think that next year
hello everyone I'm
Ollie ollie the web apps for many years
notably worked with Pedro and Alan
building the first iteration of pier pad
and now working with little on ipfs and
web browsers and the ipfs gooeys so
building out rebuilding the existing
give ease to let the demonstrate what
we're capable of and so the big interest
in the co DTS and what Pedro has been
working on a it's the future and it I
just think it's super exciting and B we
want to make sure that that we
understand it well enough to start
expanding the developer ecosystem around
people building apps that use window to
ipfs and how you know how they can do
the mutable data on top of the permanent
web and that kind of thing so interested
because it's technically exciting and
interested because we have to go to
explain it to so people who haven't been
staring at this for the last 12 months
awesome vids let me go next
good night rider who I wanted to be a
little just a PFS and just be projects
amongst other random things I guess I'm
one of the original instigators to get
this exp work to start get started on IP
Joslyn and I've been just in sync with
better development super excited for all
of this and what it enables I really
excited for all the apps that will be a
blow to be created we've like these
building blocks you'll come out of this
working group in yeah fun stuff cool
Alan over the next
yes the mute button was evading me hello
I'm Allen I'm also part of the web
browsers working group so I'm here for
trolling purposes only
so yeah just interested in this like all
he said well I did a bit of work on
Pierre pad for making it look pretty
when it first came out and now it's
awesome and I've been working a lot with
as little said on ipfs companion been
adding window ipfs so in ipfs companion
whenever you visit a website it'll add a
window type EFS object and i'm hoping to
send a PR to Pierre pad pretty soon to
take advantage of that if it's if
someone's got the web extension
available and if window to I professors
available then use that instead of your
own bundled.one which would be rad so
yeah that's me yes Thank You Ellen
ah is there anyone else here there is
Sarah right through ya I hear curious
okay go ahead
hi my name is Hera actually I'm working
on an application web application based
on PSC RDD popped up
[Music]
are you able to hear me yes okay
yeah so I've been doing a kind of a bit
tour for shopping so it's like everybody
is going to maintain the christ history
of the product and everybody is going to
share the data of the market so
currently we have applications like
honey or camel camel camel but they are
using as our client doc pictures so I
just want to make it decent reluctant I
made in Pontic I'll show you
you
so I just made it a dummy pub/sub app so
you just think like you have nine
products or something like that
[Music]
and
you set a price like if I read
and maybe 150 in reality you don't add
the prices you have a chrome extinction
which cracks price
so since apples you have an end of the
user who is going to need the price
graph of that product data he he wants a
price price history
he took goes on
yeah it's going to
get up there
yeah so the data is basically hot
tubbing from
one user to other user so everybody is
sharing the prices free of the current
market so you just need to this is a
just a web app which I read it but I
just want to create a chrome extinction
based on this like like a competitor to
honey cool and you're using pops up for
this
no strategies I'm using white ejs
connector oh okay okay yeah yeah it's
based on your project okay okay cool
nice do what I add that to the make it
like a pull request for instance and add
that to some yeah that's that the home
page for the working group I'm sorry I
didn't get here I feel you can if there
is a product if you can you can all that
need to to the working group home yeah
okay yeah sure market pull request that
would be great thank you
cool is there anyone else
can you stop sure I'm so here thank you
cool all right
I'll review let me see who else all
right
I think that's that's everyone
great
[Music]
all right so there any any questions
whether to the working group of what we
discuss also things they want to discuss
further we're here we have a few minutes
that we can still use
go ahead no it's like something I've
noticed today on the ipfs IRC channel
someone was having problems we've I
think it was why I a TFS connector and
using all their multi other formats not
sure if you are familiar with that but I
think there are multiple pull requests
related to that and my question is who
is
maintaining responsible for making new
releases reviewing crippled requests and
stuff like that so
but I think you're muted and I think I'm
not get it yeah Oh hopefully I was
meeting I was okay all right I was oh it
should be me so I just released a new
version of I profess connected today I'm
I was in vacation last week so person to
point to point out which is a new IP
first pub/sub room version so I'm not
actively using this this package but I'm
maintaining maintaining it so which is
basically exactly the question yeah like
it was a name I will function right I
think that sorry I've seen a lot of
issues across multiple repositories
related to renaming swarm dial function
something yes yeah so that's what
changing in the latest ipfs version
which needs to be to be tested in some
in some packages and real and new
versions must come out yeah wasn't
middle of that the previous week so I'm
going okay yeah I felt that someone was
like trying bleeding edge code I'm
having some trouble so I just wanted to
yeah yeah point me to the DRC or I think
they've already like close to the one I
had in mind
it was like PR ten in why I difference
connector oh yeah hanging out there for
for some time yeah yeah okay thank you
have I have questions like how do you
try to authenticate peds getting into
the pop tab like how do you authenticate
them into this room right right right
now we have a very crude mechanism for
authentication on the applications that
were billing so namely pure pads
which is really just passing a key on
the hash pass a hash of the URL so it's
like a way of passing a key off man
theoretically could transmit those over
any other channel so just just a bunch
of keys there's a read key and there's a
right key there
ricky allows you to fold the strategy so
the folder changes but doesn't allow you
to make any changes the right key makes
you allows you to make changes so the
basically when you write something you
sign it and encrypt
then when is when you create an
operation sign it encrypted and the
operation being signs can be validated
by other peers and if the the violation
fails you don't know you don't
incorporate that change into your
theology so this is a very crude way of
of having that because anyone with you
with the right key can send a quantity
to someone else and then we don't have
any control over over that so that's
basically something that we need to
tackle on on the next few weeks which is
a way first to identify peers in in a
secure way
so basically ipfs has a public key or
our and I didn't arrive from the public
key and that's a way to identify appear
and peers internally have a private key
kinda correspond so that public key and
that and you could use that mechanism to
try that identity into another identity
outside of a key FS still to be
discussed or implemented several ways
and then a way to transmit admin rights
over certain resources in a secure way
over using those identities that we just
created or or any other way but I bets
the path that that is most obvious to me
so yeah there's a lot of pending work on
on that area there's a lot of research
also on that area I've listed a bunch of
research while research and actual
implementations on on identity and
access control management we need we
need we need to pick as a group we need
to pick one or more and implement them
and see where it leads my suggestion for
for that make sense yeah
five yeah is there someone we're gonna
collect up this research do we have like
a spot do we want it all they hit that
github repo or what's the plan
well there's a bunch of of well yeah
there's I mean there's like an issue for
each one of these things that are that
out and more we couldn't track that
there and there's also in terms of which
the CID research
well charities don't really tackle
identity or access control they're
they're more there they work over a
network of trusted nodes so on top of
that or underneath that depends know why
you're looking at it we have to build
somewhere two to four notes to to be
able to trust each other and so well you
can either add that to share research
Araki repo or or that here in in this so
basically the working group we should
first identify all all the set of yards
and and then list up there
and then people will discuss over and
then collect articles and and then we
will people will then maybe create all
the issues that attack whole specific
implementations of of that for instance
if I wanna do implemented some viewport
which is a way to identify the defer to
to manage identity on a centralized
manner people can create a new issue
here or create a new repo an endpoint
that that issue to that that repo it's
it's kind of open I want to have a
waffle board also to track track that
all the issues and perhaps have multiple
multiple ripples on on the same board
knows that that's possible but but yeah
you have any suggestion Brennan
um yeah I think it it's not much of an
extension on about what you've just
mentioned here I'm just gonna paste in
chat sort of what we've used in other
parts we have this data together project
where we've had to do a similar thing
where we have to do a lot of landscape
analysis just to understand sort of what
exists so that someone can get a quick
overview of like some the concept of
identity and so we've with this together
research repository it's been very
similar regis folders and readme MDG
files in a github repo and you can very
quickly it's real drill into a topic
that you think is pertinent and then
pull requesting into that with additions
and changes becomes a little bit easier
but it's effectively just an extension
on exactly what you just said basically
using some sort of github repo and it's
basically an organizational choice above
all else but more than happy to do that
it's issues or whatever but it's I think
the most important thing is just being
able to get that quick overview ok where
what's the list of documents that are
worth checking out what are people sort
of finding useful right if it's
something that we're going yeah we're
going to produce and collect we could
also add add documents to to this repo
right right now until we exhaust the
issues like if issues become very hard
to to scan we could then then then come
up with some other way we can revisit
revisit this and in two weeks perhaps
and see what goes but that that research
if it relates to these topics perhaps it
would be helpful just just a point I'm
two point from this dynamic delicate to
do these issues into a specific fixed
set of documents that that would be
great so we can we can also share the
knowledge and comments that's great yeah
so I think we started start with the
shoes and just keep going with that and
so I'll try and jump in there
what whoa okay I think we are actually
not that starting from scratch
there is already a bunch of issues on
the research charity we bow under
dynamic data bring luck if you if you
have some time like to check it out I
actually kind of like like the word get
better deals with the labels or like
your labels to tell if it's research or
if it's an implementation question
rather than actually like studying their
landscape and then you know like web was
if it's like the identity or CREP
specifically an AC else and so there's
like some work here it needs to be again
experiment work because this has been
mostly pedro gathering notes from
conversations we folks at a nice call
and other folks and so we just need to
have more people like bouncing ideas
back and forth make sure that's the
notes is just right yep cool I have a
one question and one point which I my
question to the crib I don't know if the
Guara following that okay can I can I go
forward mm-hmm okay so I will start with
my question first which is so right now
like the web I'm glad that the web
browser two-piece here because they have
been not only in injecting ipfs into web
browsers through an extension on true
integration or even through a desktop
application they actually started the
work of providing nicer api's for web
developers to like have access
- well fast ability like the ability for
web developer to request access to
specific features of ipfs and so those
are things that are outside of my the
ipfs the corporate call it's more like
again it's it's more of a building block
to build Street applications and so I'm
really interested to understand that if
there is a need for a CREP like key
value store could be part of the ipfs
collection of tools that web developers
will get used to by default or if there
isn't even like a generic thing that we
can actually put it there for anyone
developer to use and and I like that
question if that answer is no it makes
everything has to be specific specific
their own data pipe then how can we best
guy developers to understand what is
going on and to like then inject those
extra functionalities those extra
features into for example the ipfs a
Chrome extension alright because web
extension right look can they rabbit out
as one package and in axis
in the web browsers people want to share
some thoughts like if you are already
have asked this yourselves coop when I
was a hell not sure if it's a direct
answer to your question but we have
something like a proof of concept when
it comes to providing API like providing
some sugarcoating for web developer or
distributed app developer when it comes
to NFS so what we did is we predicts all
paths for writes and reads from aquifers
files API with some like half that is
scoping access of every app to a
specific subtree of entire IP first
files through right so what this means
is that applicate provides isolation
between data that was written to ipfs
files by different apps so that apps
cannot change each other's data so
that's like a first experiment on a big
crowd to providing some sugar coating on
top of existing api's it's like it's the
same api what we do we like
transparently prefix all all writes and
reads and what is related to this is
that what should be user experience and
I think I've I'm not sure if I had liked
this discussion I think I started this
talking about this yesterday but my
laptop overheated so if it will overheat
once again so I try to like keep it
minimal so the user experience of
current web is that browser does not ask
you to allow it to have access to local
store
courage or save cookies and stuff like
that though there is no dialogue do you
want to allow this website to like set
local storage under some limit right and
I think when we design those sugar
coatings for different api's we should
while we design them or while we think
about them we should always think should
it be something that is allowed by
default vias and security is provided by
some way of sandboxing beta and the like
I always think we should go this
unboxing way route instead of nagging
user with dialogues when possible
otherwise we'll like end up it's my leg
favorite example is the Windows Vista
user access controls that's just people
there it was it was like the horror of
training users to don't read anything
and just blindly accept all yeah so I
really don't want to go that route and I
think what we could do is to go this
unboxing way route that's like my
thought not sure if it answers your like
general question or if it's useful but I
just wanted it is that it is a very good
answer because like probably the windows
people went exactly the same question
right I did listen the other same
question and the decision was let's just
ask these or every it's going to be yeah
it's really more like no responsibility
for them I think you have like when you
ask generally like should you give the
decision the power for the user to
decide or not I guess like the default
ISO will be like of course like always
what the user design but when you feel
like asking the user to decide on 300
different things then it's not a vision
anymore it just like a reflex of like
it's just clicking yes
that's a very good point and and so yeah
thank you for your answer I have like a
couple of like random ideas in my head
from for example having almost like a
building block store where you can
almost say oh I want the desert okay so
I wanted a yjs thing and then like you
click yes adds to my PFS into a browser
extension I profess nodes and instead of
a then I professors cannot have access
to this API as well and so there's not
like a lot of questions here like what
should be there and I was like I want to
have a map although like it's basically
a simple map lying in the middle and
then they're like a diva's Korda
protocol and then userland
and like we need to have a way to like
move pieces from you zero into core and
also from core tree so and when you
realize like they are not the best
building blocks anymore but maybe that
for future I see couple hands Alan I
guess first and then I didn't quit was
brilliant yeah yeah so just to kind of I
think a little blood was trying to say
is um I guess web experience might be a
good place to try out features like if
you were thinking about exposing like
raw ripe if s the oddities to the user
in core IP first then you could we could
try it out in in the web extension in
windowed or IP at first like we can add
that in quite quickly and easily and and
see if if people are actually actually
start using it and if it does gain
traction then it could quite easily be
be then put into a window type if s is
kind of what you're saying David you
know we need a way to figure out what
what should and shouldn't be in core and
that I'm just saying that that might you
know using making use of web extension
and making use of desktop in that way it
might be one way to do it and so I think
Lydell was just saying you know we've
added this whole
em FS scoping to companion and that's
just one example where we've we've done
something that isn't explicitly in in
ipfs and we've also got this whole
permission this idea of permissions for
ipfs they also isn't in ipfs but as I
think has been discussed previously and
hasn't we have
a consensus of how that should work but
we've added something that works and
it's just an example of things that we
can try out in the web extension the
that could then be the ideas from that
can be iterated on quite quickly or
changed without just releasing a new
version of ifs with a half-baked idea or
something in and Rickon we can sort of
we have a mechanism for trying stuff out
yeah and I think I'd actually at the
risk of blowing the scope of this
conversation too far open I'm wondering
if some of this sort of natural
conclusion of some of this starts to
look a little bit like wasps for the D
web where we're starting to think about
you've got like an M F s store and so
maybe I'm writing an application that
wants to request a certain amount of
resources and some of this sort of extra
sort of app developer friendly stuff is
starting to provide identity sort of
solutions out of the box that are
ideally derived from the public key or
the pure ID of the underlying IP FS node
and so you can sort of say hey this is
this is who I am
this identity can travel this identity
can be move around manipulated and
there's I love to live in a world where
there's sort of something that looks a
lot like OAuth where we take away a lot
of these now when I say a lot the good
bits of all not the really disgusting
bits of Awesome
but the but where we have sort of a
scheme in place for how are these apps
going to communicate with each other I
think one of the things we got wrong
with the original Internet was this like
question of different sort of services
communicating with one another on behalf
of other parties and a lot has become a
very thick specification for dealing
with that sort of stuff and so while I
know it's extremely early to be having
this conversation
it'd be really exciting if we could sort
of take some of the conversations we're
having now and suit them in the context
of like what does it look like to have a
rich ecosystem of applications on the
distributed web that are able to
communicate with each other like we're
doing a bunch of stuff surrounding
making data available and structured and
validate able and we'd love to just see
that be an interchangeable block with
anything else that operates in the D web
and it would be great if the identity
systems that we were participating in
weren't reinventing this wheel of
managing access control and sort of
immigrate tablets I love some of the
permission screens that have come out of
proper OAuth integrations it's makes
makes my life easier so I'd love to see
that
you know trans trans fat beta transfer
over and if we could bring down the
developer overhead of learning OS and
any of that garbage that would be really
cool in my opinion yeah there's a bunch
of related work on self sovereign
sovereignty
I think that I'm not sure how to spell
it yeah are you familiar with that right
yeah so it was like like yeah it's like
it's like a way I weigh too well to
store claims to store proofs and to
store claims and proofs on on local
machines so on a laptop or a phone
well that here generally is that as a
user can only provide to the application
specific claim or specific proof that
that application needs for instance I
need to prove that I am over 18 years
old so I have this proof and I'm going
to deliver that to the that application
without handing over all my identity
data just that proof so I'm in control
of mine entity and who I provide truths
to so I think that's that could really
work well with something like a browser
extension or even mobile mobile
application in in this style of allows
very loosely yeah totally and very
excited to look at that I think the
really exciting thing here that is that
we could also be requesting access to
resources that are sort of traditionally
because you're operating on the machines
that can serve up storage and compute I
think there's some exciting things to
sort of extend that but yeah I'll
definitely look into this self suffering
poverty yeah there's a bunch yeah
there's lots of diff well I'll paste the
issue that tracks identity on the
working group up with some some more
links but that I've been researching
lately on that on that subject which
well I didn't it is not something that
I'm tackling right not personally but
someone needs to so I'm just going to
put those links over there and someone
hopefully someone will will absorb those
and in terms of what you said of it I
think in terms of having like like I
totally agree
name spacing
is is necessary in terms of strategies
specific strategies may be a bit too
early to do that because I was so
experimenting a bit for for instance
just given a quick example in terms of
scaling operational strategies rely on
causal delivery of messages and there is
like so state by offer state by
charities which only transmit the state
but all the differences when they are
required are a way for us to solve that
snapshotting problem issue and it's kind
of early research also but I think it
can be pliable so just just to name just
to show you an example of how still need
to try different things but I started
early agree having that bundling to
browser extension that people can or can
opt-in into our developers cannot into
and use I think would be paved the way
for depths angry
okay I think also bid right
say sorry sit again which part the the
last three words you say my name and
something else I think I was know I was
searching for you okay I'm still here I
have one more point but I can wait
listen I also say to each other
can I go okay cool so the only or one
small thing that happened today it was
kind of like a reorg of the pier
taps building blocks on the IPF scpi
ripple so after after some work that
fritzy and endale and others from and
yet that I've been doing or building a
block wheel ipfs and basically taking
some of the world activities with
charities and capabilities for pier pad
and I just creating a general platform
so that like you can build apps weed out
the platform and that can be block and
be forum like issues like be capable to
support model use cases so with all that
development and that conversation we
decided okay let's I just like create
this kind of like small / large endeavor
of not necessarily creating like
complete apps but actually just like
testing the technology testing these
building blocks getting the conversation
going getting the examples going clinic
is open the product it's like a peer
peer on peer forum etc people are using
these primitives these cryptographic ACL
primitives and more and so now you can
check out on that repo again like the
organization just the the cleanup was on
this morning so it's pretty simple right
now but like you can see there's a list
already of like the apps that have been
built or that are in progress peer bad
peer flipchart your blog then there is
like the building blocks PFF core and
that that is what is getting transformed
into becoming like the peer platform and
like Pierce ATT PAP fests could mirror
and and also some examples and so
ideally in the soon future you will have
apps that you are familiar with like you
have built in the centralized web so
like you know what are your challenges
and you will have a version for the
decentralized web and so you can better
map your knowledge from one to the other
and I understand how to do things if
you're
you still on the centralized lab and
again like this will open like like you
will create many questions like over it
will be a very informative exercise
because it will just like stretch
everything we've been building still to
the max and yeah I'm excited about this
too
like it's like my point is a plug but
that's no big question my comment is
that this really yeah right awesome
everything every day that everyone I've
been doing I just really clean the repos
Italy created the story cool I think
we're like three minutes over time I
know if anyone if everyone can can still
hang out anyone once has another comment
or question
Allen
yeah hey just quickly really quickly one
of our
otice you create a place where people
can register
for using windowed ipfs like a website
kind of like experiments on like on the
chrome experiments website and it'll be
cool if we had some cross-pollination
which in there or register different
apps and app types and stuff like that
you
did you meet it again sorry I was saying
good idea I don't want anyone else
once China
oh cool
oh let me see the El review if anyone is
done alright cool so everyone thanks for
coming thank you for participating on
the first one hope to see you in like
two weeks if not before
oh boy thank you so much for hosting and
getting everyone together let's continue
the channel hopefully soon on an ipfs
based media side yeah all right
have a good week bye bye